Great. You're listening to radiolab,
the podcast from who you are, public radio and public radio.
[inaudible],
C o. N n P. R. Three two one. Hello,
I'm Jad Abumrad and I'm Robert Krulwich. This is radio lab, the podcast and a,
we're working busily on season five. We thought, wow, we do that.
We would bring you a little extra, extra extra.
So we very recently went to the cashland science museum run by the National
Academy of Sciences in Washington d c Yes. To talk to an audience. Not, oh,
there were a bunch of scientists there but they weren't all science? No,
they were mostly just just people.
And we asked those just people to consider three very puzzling radio questions
that we have every time we put our show together. So yeah,
here is that conversation.
So we figured since this is a science place,
you guys are probably science inclined folk.
We would talk about some of the troubles that we run into when we talk about
science or try to problems like density,
like unfriendly genus of ideas.
But they're great ideas.
But how do you somehow make them friendly to people who maybe don't like or
don't know that they like science?
So we're gonna kind of go through some of our, uh, favorite problem solving.
Yeah, we have hurdles. Uh, the, uh, the,
the most obvious hurdle is when you step into a room to have a conversation with
someone who is smart, knowledgeable, very knowledgeable,
actually and articulate,
and they start talking and you think in the back of your mind,
oh. And they read papers like a,
which is going to be the subject of our first clip,
selective silencing of cell communication and how it influences anterior or
posterior pattern formation and see elegance,
which is a heavy collection of words. Yes. Like heavy,
like a, like a hippo, which is a,
which is a wonderful animal but heavy. And so I think one of our,
our goals is to take the hippo and strap on some ballet shoes and make it a,
do a pure wet.
So here is an example of what you're going to hear is a woman named Cynthia
Kenyon, brilliant scientist. She's talking about a little worm that she has. Um,
she has figured out she's done something to the worm that allows the worm to
live longer than the wormwood, ordinarily live. Not just a little longer,
but like twice as long. Um,
so just imagine that you're the one holding the mic and this is what you hear.
The daft 16 gene makes a protein called the Daf 16 protein and that protein
binds to the DNA where other genes are and it,
it activates a whole bunch of other genes.
So the way it works is that the hormone binds to the Daf two receptor.
And when that happens, daft two receptor, um,
kind of squashes the activity of daft 16. It turns it down. Okay.
So Dev 16 can't bind to its, its, uh,
genes in the DNA and make them more active. Okay?
So when you come along with a mutation or some other way,
and you inhibit the activity of the receptor, now you liberate daft 16.
It's free.
It springs into action and it activates about a hundred genes in the DNA,
in these hundred genes. Each do a little tiny good thing for the cell.
Okay. So yeah, you're sitting there going, oh yeah.
If you know what she's saying. No, I do. I do know what she's saying.
But I'd say just using like you're scanning somebody talking like that and you
know you're hearing the right, you're hearing squish. I think she said squish.
I think she said spring liberate. She said, liberate. Liberate. Yes sir.
Her verbs or her verbs are very, very useful to me. It's these nouns,
a deaf deaf to that. She's the, I said,
what do you do with a thing like that? What we've done here is we've, uh,
we've used the verbs where we're happy with the rose,
but we've amplified and accessorize the nouns. I think. No, I think it's a,
I think it's the other way round. Actually. We, we stole the nouns,
replaced them with our own and we amped up the verbs. No, no.
We took the nouns and we made them much more colorful.
Anthropomorphize them. Gave them a character rich, rich story.
Totally on the same page. Yeah. Okay. Here, here's what we did go.
When we are making mutation in the def two gene, we damage it.
That actually causes it not to work as well.
So that actually is kind of profound.
That tells you right away that the worm has a gene in it that shortening the
warms lifespan, which is why she calls it
[inaudible]
Murray butchy grim. We purchase,
it's the gene that makes you die if you're aware,
right? So by damaging this gene,
Cynthia and her team essentially are taking the grim reaper
[inaudible]
out. Stop that. Okay,
so the question is what exactly is the daft to doing to make the cell age more
quickly? Here is where the story gets a little weird.
Well, we found another gene whose name is also daft, but it's a different app.
It's called deaf 16 and this is a gene whose normal function is to keep you
young.
It's like a fountain of Youth Change Too. There was a grim virgin before, right?
And now there's a fountain of youth genes. That's what she discovered.
And inside the worms, these jeans are struggling with each other.
Here's how it works. When it, when a worm ages,
normally the def two receptor GAF to kind of squashes the activity of deaf 60 it
turns it down.
Sorry.
[inaudible]
and so the where majors, okay.
So when you come along and you inhibit the activity of the Daf two receptor,
now you liberate daft 16 right? It's free.
It springs into action and it activates about a hundred genes
and the DNA, these hundred genes
each do a little tiny good thing for the cell.
And altogether it makes the cell live twice as long. Okay, there you go. Yeah.
Now the question is, and you know, we come,
I come out of a national public radio,
he comes out of sort of Wny C so we come out of a sort of strong journalism
tradition.
You can't do any of these things in a newsroom for one of the issues here is
how much should you embroider. Yeah. It's also, I mean,
the question I think also is how stupid do you want to be?
Yeah. You know, I mean,
this is something that we always argue about because there are,
I mean there's a thousand things we left out and if pure scientists would be
very upset perhaps sometimes at all of the things that we didn't say here
on the other hand is not an in,
and I speak from the television tradition where stupid is our middle name.
We w we g I mean I,
I have been in network television for so long that if anything gets a little too
complicated, I instantly turn him and said, no, just cut it. Just get rid of it.
Just get rid of it because we don't have to go there.
And then we just save ourselves all the sweat and all the bother.
So what you do is you sort of, um, you watch each,
we watch each other's eyeballs to see like when have we come to the very, very,
very edge of acceptable stupidity,
just and weird and repetition. Yeah. And then that's where we rest.
Well those are the, the second technique we want to get. Yeah.
We want to talk about music.
One wanted to sort of talk a bit about how we use the music and what are the
principles that guide those choices and to do that.
Wanting to play a clip again, this is raw tape of a,
of a very interesting guy and mathematician that we really like.
We talked to a lights named Steve Strogatz who we were talking to him about,
I forget what, and he just told us this thing about fireflies.
So this is the raw raw tape here.
It not here, but in, in Southeast Asia, in Malaysia or Thailand,
there are enormous, uh, congregations of fireflies along river banks. I mean,
picture it, there's a river bank in Thailand in the remote part of the jungle.
You're in a canoe slipping down the river. There's no sound of anything.
Maybe the occasional, you know,
exotic jungle bird or something and you're looking and you just see, I mean,
I can't do it. It's radio,
but you see boop boop with thousands of lights on and then off,
all in sync.
So that's a little clip of tape that, uh,
I remember when he said that we bought, we will kind of look at each other like,
Ooh, that's kind of interesting. Okay. We can work with that.
It's also very Patriot league. You get the whole idea, you know,
you're on a river, you know, you're seeing thing.
So there's no particular reason to add anything.
Hmm. But however, um, here's,
here's that same clip of tape all gussied up. Um, here's what we did with it.
Trip. There's a river bank in Thailand in the remote part of the jungle.
You're in a canoe slipping down the river. There's no sound
of anything. Maybe the occasional, you know,
exotic jungle bird or something and you're looking and you just see woo
woo woo with thousands of my time.
And then off, all in sync.
[inaudible] imagine all the trees as far as you can see are all brilliantly lit
and then totally dark, brilliantly lit, total darkness,
all of them in sync. Yeah. And no Westerner has ever seen this site.
There was folklore, there was the stories about it,
but nobody had gone in and photographed. And capital's samples. Well,
not until 1965 this was done by John Buck,
John C, k, one of the great researchers on his other records.
I'm 92 buck and his wife Elizabeth, Mash.
Buck went to Thailand and a captured bags full of male fireflies could catch
them, shake them for anxious at firefly,
rain down and brought them back to their hotel room and we turned off the
lights.
We turned over Louis and saw that the fireflies flittered around on the walls
and ceiling flew back and forth,
flashing randomly Lisbon layer on the floor of the room.
I was just tired.
John stayed awake and he would still want who saw within a few minutes,
little groups duos and trios formed and after a while,
fourth one would join in a closer, closer together.
And then finally they were secret eyes.
The whole room was blinking in perfect harmony. He was excited. The next day,
Morgan told me outlet. 20 years later,
John Buck is still asking this question, well,
what is going on today on radio lab?
We will do as Steve Urges and step away from the individual to find mystery
beauty and order in the group.
So there's a real question that I'm, did I want to ask,
do all the noises and the bleeps enhance what Steve Strogatz the story he told
us? Or does it rob it in some sort of way? I don't know.
I don't know.
I have a prejudice just cause a of the, my, my sheer off of some of the,
of the deep musicality of things like that. This is jams territory,
so he's not allowed to say, but there is something a mile, um,
just the bucks. For example, you hear first of all, a string of voices.
So you're a Robert's voice. You hear jazz voice,
those are sort of radio eve voices. And then you hear Steve Strogatz, his voice,
which is a rich voice. And then these two fabulously strange people,
one of whom sounds like he's just basically made of sawdust.
Yeah. I don't know what's with Mrs. Buck.
She seems to be hanging upside down or whatever.
But then when you pick those things where you get all, uh, and,
and, and you get this strange, crazy quilt of, Oh, just, um, uh,
of raw ingredients just in the sound. And you know,
a lot of people would listen to the buckles. They will be, can't use it.
And a little hard to hear, little hard to understand.
But this isn't that this is a guy who just jumps in with both feet and gets
happy that we're going to get gradations and variety in mass.
Just the sound of voices. Let's talk about, uh, something else. Uh,
how about the, the, the, the problem.
Okay. And then tech. So, uh, so what are we done? We've done a,
what was their first one? We did a analogies.
Metaphor number two is music and stuff. Music and stuff.
A number three, be personal. Be Third Grade.
Let me explain what I mean. Yeah. So, so the, uh,
the National Science Foundation and other people have done a lot of surveys to
see how people feel about science. And when they ask people,
how do you feel about science, they will say, uh, yeah, you know,
I sort of like science. It's okay. Um, but then if you ask the question,
have you ever liked science? Will they say, yeah, you know,
when I was in third grade I loved it cause we would do these experiments that
involved, you know,
the absorbency of paper towels and boiling eggs and it was amazing.
It was so much fun. It was like something right in front of me and it was me.
I can do it. And then came the Krebs Cycle. Yes. Yes.
Somewhere along the way that joy gets drained away
probably by the Krebs, right? Yeah. So,
so all over in a plot that was probably hatched in some dark cave somewhere,
not too far from Osama bin Laden.
There was a meeting of science teachers from the ninth grade who decided that
they would take the simply interesting business of swallowing something and
having the banana finally get down so we can actually feed each individual cell
each cycle. Thank you very much. And I'll get up now and you know that this,
this,
how this turned into a championship memorization contest in which you had to
learn cycles within cycles, within cycles, within cycles,
within cycles and why, why, why, here's why.
Because the ninth grade teacher wanted to say, actually,
thank you very much Danny, Sheila and Freddy. You are the scientists.
The other 37 of you can go home now. Okay.
Yes. And in an an interest to invite those other 37 back in, um,
we, uh, we, we take a decidedly yes, anti crib,
Anti Krebs even approach and we, we,
we live in a state of permanent third greatness in the sense that we want this
to be something that feels like a, like, like it did, it's yours again.
And so the ways that we do that just sort of subtly are when Robert and I go and
talk to somebody, we always use the sound of us walking in the door,
knocking on the door.
It's like the most important sound in all of radio lab is that sound of
knocking. Oh, why exactly. Why is that? Well,
it's because it's the sound of discovery. It's like a,
it's a way of inviting people. And I come along to your room,
that's a discovery. Well,
it's the sound of saying rather than a scientist at a podium,
it's a scientist who is in a space that we can go visit and have an adventure
with. Okay.
So then we have one other objection that regularly gets thrown at us all the
time. Mostly by, there's a guy at NPR named Robert Smith. Excellent,
excellent reporter who will lean over what I'm doing all the time and say,
so what's it with you and what's in with you? I said, why, why, why, what?
He goes, what everybody else here goes out into the world. And you know,
if you're going to interview a cat, go find a cat. You make up a cat,
why can't you just go sign the world as it lays?
Why is everything has to be built from the bottom up? I said,
it doesn't have to be that. That's not a, well now that you mentioned it,
there is a tendency we have because we enjoy, um, frankly the,
the craftsmanship and the artistry of doing this. But I mean,
his criticism of us is that we always sort of make it up and he was like,
why do you always have to make it up? Why don't you just go have an adventure?
Don't make up an adventure. Just have one. So we thought, well yeah,
that's kind of a good idea. Not like it hadn't occurred to us before.
It's a show about science,
but why not just be the science in a pseudo sciencey kind of way?
Be The experiment in other words. So try this at home. Yes,
they again, terrible the thing.
We've bumped into a really interesting opportunity in our latest season in the
laughter show, we were talking to a laugh scientist and uh,
he told a, told Robert something that Robert didn't quite buy,
which led us to have certain ideas. Well, here's the raw tape.
Laughter causes laughter. You can throw the joke away.
Laughter causes laughter. Well,
it's a really prove that you'd have to give a record.
It was somebody laughs and then somebody else laughs and then you laugh and then
someone else laughs and nothing's going on except the laugh. Yeah.
So you can't get a laugh going from nothing actually you can't.
So he claims, yeah, no, I just thought that was ridiculous.
I mean I think you have to start with something.
Someone has to fall down on a banana peel or something. But he pointed out,
and this is true, that a lot of laughter is, hey, you want to go get a sandwich?
Okay. It's a lot of social laughter. It isn't having to do with funny. I said,
no, but I, but I mean I'm talking about laughter. Laughter.
Do you think you can get laughter, laughter going from just laughter.
And he said he his,
it's his idea that there are certain laughs that have kind of biologically
contagious property and that if you laugh in a certain way,
other people in the room can't help but laugh. So we thought, well,
why don't we try this way? If he's right,
theoretically Robert and I should be able to go up to union square,
get into a crowded subway train and just start laughing and through the sheer
verve of our laughter that laughter should spread.
This was our experimental design was that I would walk in, we,
four of us prepared, two of us had tape recorders and recording equipment.
They surreptitiously would enter the otherwise crowded Manhattan subway.
This is Russia.
Then Jad and I would enter from a different door and put ourselves within the
reach of the microphones,
which would be Annville invisible to most people on the subway. Yes.
Here's how it sounded. Okay, here we are, union square experiment.
It's about to begin
[inaudible]. I show them a book.
They're getting very hot,
no nothing, nothing. And we tried it.
We tried it over and over and over and over. I, this is take seven.
We're on a downtown six train
and we were starting to be like,
we were the crazy people in the subway and it wasn't simply that we weren't not
amusing to them. They began to hate us and look at us like we were lepers.
And it just was not working at all.
And we did this pretty much all day cause we were like,
we are going to crack this one and maybe, you know, we could have,
we could have discovered that we have just proven professor provene wrong,
you know, and laughter does not. But no,
for some reason we felt that we ought to do what he thought we could have done
had we only done it quote, write unquote whatever that was.
So here's what happened. Um, final, uh, trip of the day.
We get this notion that, okay, well it hasn't worked the first 11 times,
so maybe it'll work the spinal time. If, uh,
maybe the problem is that we have these two people with us, Lulu Miller, Orion,
McManus who are the recorders and they kind of enter the train with us
surreptitiously and sit and try and be invisible.
But they've got these big machines with them.
The machines are throwing the whole experiment off. I don't know.
So we sent them ahead. Yes. And I figured they would ride the train uptown.
We would get on as if we don't know them.
So we were like several steps ahead of them so they'd,
we would enter and no one would make the connection between the,
the microphone bearing twosome and us. You have no relation to them at all?
Not at this was going to make the entire place scream with laughter.
We felt yes, exactly. Unbeknownst to us, however, uh, Lulu and Orion, uh,
hatched a devilish plan.
Good afternoon. New York is, I have a quick question.
I'm hoping everyone here can help me out a little bit this afternoon.
I have a bet with my bosses.
We're going to get on it the next train and they don't think that it's possible
to get an entire subway car full of people to laugh. They think people are too.
You know, times. I don't want to have fun, something like that.
So do you think you guys can help me out with this? The next,
the next stop. They're going to get on to guys. All right,
they're going to start laughing. All right.
We're just going to kind of like chocolate and then we're going to see if we get
the whole train. Justin. Rory.
Can you do that? Yeah.
All right guys, can you guys hang on
there? My kids on this train, they were nuns on this trade area.
It was like a whole schmear of people on this chain.
We had no idea that this was happening.
We were standing on the platform expecting yech yet another failure. And uh,
and uh, here's what happens is the train arriving.
Okay, here comes the six train. Take 12
train,
take out a book with the book canceled or excuse for the humorous interaction
here.
They start to get laugh in a moment.
[inaudible] the place went crazy. I was so blessed.
I tell you,
it was the most terrifying thing we've ever experienced.
Bar None, because to go from nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing.
And then to go to everything it was, we ran out of the trade.
We were frightened. This is actually our reaction afterwards.
Oh my God.
It's like being with too many clowns coming out of the little Volkswagen,
you know, 50 of them [inaudible] my day.
Oh No, not me. I just thought, Oh my God, I've just gone to hell.
I don't know. Cause it was too big to be so incident two, yes.
So I don't know what the lesson to draw from that really make it up.
That's what the lesson is.
They get up and leave the science to the professionals really besides that. Um,
so I guess the,
the other thing that we've then we'll finish and you can ask questions if you
want, uh, is that we try to hope that maybe that the, the um, the,
the surprise and the kind of, uh,
frankly just delight of having a conversation together is somehow,
um, an ingredient that other people would, if you turn on the radio,
you turn on your iPod, whatever, and you hear this, that you kind of,
there's an image I have, uh, from the New Yorker I think, or from someone who,
uh, a kid learned how to read and uh, got very,
very excited by books. She was maybe four or five years old and she,
she just loved books. Maybe three, four years old.
And one day her mother walked in and found the little girl standing on the
picture book with your toes,
kind of trying to curl and months of what are you trying to do?
And the kid said, I'm trying to get the book. Um,
and I, I was kind of hoping that, you know,
among the other that that this program would create a sense of just a happy
exploration that people when they hear it would just want to take off their
socks and their toes. Try to get in the book. Yeah.
Hmm.
So in any case, I mean, do you guys have any questions?
Yeah, that's our presentation more or less so we can go to questions. Yeah,
we're, oh, we get,
why don't you go to this person here in the green and then we'll,
I just wanted you to speak a little bit about the introduction, which, you know,
obviously has the layers and time shifting.
And I'm getting old enough. I'll find that a little annoying
and why? See? Yeah. Oh, that, yeah, it's weird.
There's been a lot of emails about is did you send us an email?
[inaudible]
you know, I, I'm a bit annoyed by it too, frankly. I want to change it,
but I made all of those in one feverish night about four years ago and I'm,
and it's time for another one.
I mean, what is the one in mind? Yeah, what did you have in mind?
Who knows what he had in mind and has strange people go? Uh, it has,
it seems to be some combination of vomit
and uh, and uh,
it's the, I really know. I mean it was a,
I had everybody read the same little block of text on a metronome,
so they're all reading it in the same tempo and then you just kind of like,
you take the syllables and I'll mash it up and it seemed like the right thing to
do at the time. I don't know. And it's, I mean it,
it does make a certain statement that okay,
you just heard all things considered and right now the rules don't apply. So it,
it's, it's like a, it's like a pellet cleanser in a way.
It's like the cracker before the next one. So, so it has that effect,
which is useful.
What time is this supposed to end at eight or we have a clock that's counting.
Yeah. Yeah. My favorite episode was the one with the voyager and,
and you know, any joint and Carl Sagan, nothing.
And I listened to the things that you guys put on the web with, you know,
Phillip Glass and Alice Waters, all those things.
So I feel like you guys have this really interesting amount of insight from
doing this show. What would you guys put on the voyager?
The voyager is a injured Inter 1977.
Carl Sagan and his wife and a few others were charged with making sort of a
mixed tape of the human experience, putting it on a gold record,
sending it out the space so that billions of years from now,
an alien would find it somehow play the record and maybe know about us on some
level
and attack planet. Um,
well that's a really good question. Yeah, I would put,
okay,
see, I'm not so sure that I want to say hello. So that's why I didn't,
you know, maybe you, are you really scared of it? Well,
here's a guy who wrote guns steal and uh, yes, Jared Dyer. So Jared, don't,
I haven't talked to him about something else. And he said, you know,
that voyager thing was the most dangerous act that humanity has ever made.
It's just silly though. Yeah, I know. But he's interested. Collapses of it.
This is a, this is a man who is not what we'd call an up.
No one's going to find the record. It's not for the aliens. It's for us.
It's a gesture. You know, it's like a,
it's as much about what we want to say about ourselves as India.
The alien can't play the record.
It's just not gonna. It's not gonna work.
What do you mean the alien can't play the record?
The alien presumably is a very sophisticated being.
There is one particular buck cello piece I would put on.
That's the only one I can think of definitively at this moment.
I might say one,
I, I might, uh, a Broadway show. Do you know? No.
Okay.
Food, glorious food from Oliver? No.
Hi,
I would put it, I think I would put a, uh,
I would put baby's laughing in of of multiple species.
I mean if they do laugh, I mean I I would put,
I would just put the cries of babies. Okay.
Okay.
No, no, no, not, not the selling that happy cries a baby. Oh,
Beethoven. You got Beethoven so easy. It's like a lazy answer.
Uh, but good question. Yes. Yeah. Uh,
well that's a good place. Yeah, that's a good place to end. I just,
I want to just say thank you to the caution for having us in the CAC and w a m
amu for the invite and national public radio and Wny c and the National Science
Foundation. I was told someone in my firm there might be in the house.
Yay. They want all your money
for supporting us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for making this happen.
And while we are spreading things around and I want to thank you for listening.
That was our conversation. I don't drive at night [inaudible] science museum.
And if you have anything to say or,
yeah, cause these are questions that we pose to the audience and you know,
if you have an opinion about our production techniques, how we,
uh, amend or don't eman conversation any of the ideas brought up here. If they,
yeah, if they make you curious, we'd be very curious to hear what you thinking.
That's right.
Email us@radiolab.org and radio lab is funded by the Alfred p Sloan Foundation,
the corporation for public broadcasting and the National Science Foundation.
I'm Chad, I'm Ron and I'm Robert Krulwich. Thank you for listening.